# Predicting-employee-attrition-and-building-employee-churn-model
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, data science predictions are used in IT industries, for improvements in market investment, employee management, etc. Retention of valuable employees within an organization has become an important issue as it is hard to find out the reasons why employees are leaving an organization and keep them satisfied is a big challenge, for this a report is made to predict the retention of an employee in an organization using the python programming with data science methods.
The main idea of this report is to find out that which valuable employee will leave the company and the features which are affecting him/her to making this decision like salary level, no. of hours spending in a week, promotion, no. of work accidents, etc.
The application was developed in Python programming language and prediction is made with the help of data science and machine learning models. The design criteria and the implementation details are presented in this report. Data mining is the next big in the world of Information Technology, usage of data extraction is increasing day by day. Data science is the process of mining of useful insights from larger amount of data to use it for the development purpose. To extract data several algorithms, methods and analyzing processes are used depending upon the kind of data we have and what the analyst intended to do with the data. The data we get is in the form of raw data, it needs to get preprocessed to make it in the form to apply algorithm on it.
Preprocessing techniques includes collection, noise removal, data reduction, transformation etc. data science methodologies are mainly classified in two categories as making prediction and pattern discovery, prediction making is the process of producing estimated result by analyzing previous results known as regression or supervised learning and pattern discovery is that method when we apply different approaches to find out similarities and dissimilarities in the given data by assigning class notations which is known as clustering or unsupervised learning.
Data Science is a blend of various tools, algorithms, and machine learning principles with the goal of discovering hidden patterns from the raw data. A Data Analyst as a rule clarifies what is happening by handling history of the information. Then again, Data Scientist not only does the exploratory investigation to find bits of knowledge from it, yet in addition utilizes different propelled machine learning calculations to recognize the event of a specific occasion later on.
A Data Scientist will take a gander at the information from numerous edges, at times edges not known before. Along these lines, Data Science is essentially used to settle on choices and forecasts making utilization of prescient causal examination, prescriptive investigation (prescient in addition to choice science) and machine learning. We know that larger companies contain more than thousand employees working for them, so taking care of the needs and satisfaction of each employee is a challenging task to do, it results in valuable and talented employees leave the company without giving the proper reason.
3
This paper provides solution for the given problem as it gives a prediction model that can be used to predict which employee will leave the company and which will not leave. It also helps in finding the exact reasons which are motivating the employees for shifting companies like lower salary, less promotions or heavy work load etc. To find the result in the form of yes or no, we have used logistic regression method, which predicts result in binary values that are 0 or 1, 0 means employee will not leave the company and 1 means he/she will.
